>> David Khourshid: I'm going to
demonstrate like these two libraries, or,
sorry, these two types of libraries,
by showing you one library actually.
And so we're not going to be
talking about XState, but
we're actually talking about XState Store.
Just because it is possible to use both of
those approaches inside of XState Store.
If you've used Zstand or Jotai before,
it's going to feel very familiar.
So I'm using XState Store just
to demonstrate the concepts.
So we're going to first import
Create Store from XState Store.
And then here's what this looks like.
We have two different types of things.
We have the actual state
that's inside the store.
And so
in XState Store that's called context.
So let's make a simple
example like account.
And then we have our transitions,
which transition that state.
So we have increment, and
this is actually just
a function which takes in the context and
it takes in the event.
So let's say that we have by and
we want to increment it by some number and
then we will just update the state so
we spread the context in there.
And this is exactly as you would expect.
The cool thing though is that XSTATE Store
was built so that you have type inference.
And so you don't necessarily need
to say these are my actions.
This is what the context looks like,
because by default it can
just infer those values.
And so with a store,
you could subscribe to it.
You could say store.subscribe and
you could grab that context and
then you could send it events, just like
you can with useReducer or with xdate.
But there's also a simpler
way to do it too.
We could do store trigger and
then type dot increment and
then you just pass in
the payload over there.
And what that's going to do is that's
going to log the incremented value.
So that's the general
idea of what a store is.
It's a container of states where you
update it indirectly via actions or
sending in events just like that.
Now, how do you use this
in a react component?
So one interesting thing about stores,
whether you're using Zestand or
XState Store or
a similar library like Redux,
is that you can either pass
it in through context or
you can have this be standalone
in something that you export.
So let's say that we have a.
Let's export a default page and
we have a button that's just
keeping track of the count.
So we want to subscribe to the count.
So the way we do that,
instead of using use date,
we would grab the count from use selector.
So we're going to grab use
selector pass in the store and
then we could read the counts
directly from there.
The reason that this is useful is
because use selector is only going to
re render this component
when the count changes.
So you could do something
like count greater than 10.
And this is just a boolean value
that's not going to re render every
single time the count changes,
but only when this value changes.
So it's going to probably be false
until it reaches that number.
And in fact, let's try this console.
We're going to count
the re renders over here.
We're not using strict mode, so
this might run twice, but and
then we're going to show the counts
over here counts greater than 10.
So now if we go to local
host exercise libraries,
use clients [LAUGH] that
gets annoying after a while.
So we have this button where we're
not showing the count true false.
Okay, so you see it changed to true.
But the real question is how
many times did it re render?
Which I forgot to show you.
So I'm going to reload this.
So once you click increment, it's actually
not re rendering at all until that.
And of course it rerenders twice
because of react in strict mode,
it's going to run the component twice.
But you could see that no
rerenders actually happen
until that value actually changes.
So that is a demonstration
of using a store.
Now, what about atoms?
So atoms are a little bit different.
Like I said, atoms are something that you
should use when the data can change
freely, like from an external source.
So let's say that I want to control
this count using an atom instead the way
that I would do that.
And again, this is very similar to other
libraries that will do the same thing.
We'll have const counts atom and
we create an Atom.
Oops, just a normal Atom
with a value of zero.
So now instead of using a store,
we would just set the atom so
we would count atom set.
We don't need to get it.
We could just get the value over here.
This is just value plus one.
And then we could go ahead and
log that count over here.
But how do we get the count
with xstate store,
it's exactly the same way as you
would select a value from a store.
So we would say const
count equals use selector.
We pass in the atom and
then we could just,
we could just give the value just for
demonstration purposes and
so you're going to see that this counts.
Yeah, there we go.
So now it just increments.
And if we want to do
something where you know,
we want to see if it's greater than 10,
then we could also see.
Let's also check the re-renders too.
So you see there's no rerenders
until it actually goes to over 10.
So this is one of the key benefits of
using these third party state management
libraries, whether it's XState Store or
different libraries, is that
you can really reduce the amount of RE
renders you have and you can make it so
that you can say that components only care
about the data that's relevant to them so
they don't need to re render every single
time any part of the state changes.
So that's a useful part
of using either stores or
an Atom-based approach is you
have those fine-grained updates.
Okay, so
are there any questions on this topic?
>> Speaker 2: I guess I'm trying to think
of the use case for Adam particularly
because I'm like, I don't know, I was like
stuck on the idea of like with the store
of like, okay, you're bulk buying and
once you hit 10 bananas or
whatever in your cart you're doing
a 10% discount or something like that.
But the idea with the Atom approach
be more so of like our whole shop,
it's like a flash sale and it's like
you're constantly trying to get like what
is the discount or something like
that where it's coming from anywhere.
Or what would I guess be a.
Better.
Use case of Atom?
>> David Khourshid: Yeah, so a good
use case of Atom would be just that.
Let's say that you have something that is
subscribing to store updates and then.
Or like a shopping store update
where it's like hey, no,
there's a flash sale on this thing.
And then you would just
update that Atom directly or
you could just do it as
an event in the store.
But the idea is that that little piece
of information sort of lives on its own.
Like that flash update from
a store doesn't need to or sorry,
let's call it a shop.
The flash update from a shop,
it's not really related to the core data.
So it might just be standalone in an Atom
that you are updating from somewhere.
So we might have this hook
like const use Flash sale and
then you know, you would have
some const Flash sale Atom and
you might even instantiate this outside of
the components where you're
like set interval and
then you know, you have whatever math dot
random is greater than 5 sale no sale.
You know, something like that.
So all of that logic lives outside.
And then you could use that
flash sale Atom and just.
Yeah, so actually for instance,
like let's say that we have
account over here and this is
the number of bananas that you want.
So just call this bananas.
And so let's say that you want to
increase the number of bananas.
And if there is a flash sale,
actually I'll just put this over here.
But we actually want to select that.
So const flash sale, we do want that.
And then we want the counts of bananas.
So bananas and
then we want the total value.
So again this goes to lessons
that we talked about before,
which is deriving state.
So we say const total price equals.
And then flash sale equals
sale bananas times 0.05,
otherwise each banana is a dollar which
is like Miami prices for bananas.
I don't know.
So let's see.
Flash sale equals sale.
Should say no sale.
And then this value isn't relevant.
Okay, yeah, let's actually try this out.
So again we have our total price and
we have an external keyword being external
data source, where it's just updating
this, you know, this flash sale.
And so we could say H1 make it big.
That's not what I.
Okay, so you know,
we might have a flash sale and
then we want to show our
total price over there.
So now we'll go here and
let's zoom in a bit.
So there's a flash sale.
But now when there's no flash sale it sort
of changes number, but you get the idea.
I don't know why we don't have
a banana emoji in there, but
actually I'm glad that you mentioned
that because right now we're combining.
Let's do this.
So instead of account atom
we have account store and
we're going to just increment that by one.
And so instead of this, we're just
going to read that from the store.
You can combine at least in xstate store
you can combine stores and atoms together.
And you could either do it like this or
that changing value itself can be an atom.
So we could say, let's just say yeah,
everything is outside.
So we could just say const total
price atom equals create atom.
And then we're actually going
to pass it in a function.
And so we are going to just return.
And this is so new that Claude
has no idea what's going on.
But we could say store get context bananas
times oops wherever the times thing is and
then flash sale item dot get
if it's a sale then multiply
that by 0.5 otherwise
multiply that by 1 and
then now in instead of this
total price we could just
select it directly from that
total price atom that we have.
And so actually this shows
you that we don't even need
that selector anymore which might
save us some re renders but
now you could see that we're
combining those atoms and
come on flash sale there's no flash sale.
There we go.
And so you could see that
price changing based on that.
So that's another benefit of using
atoms is that you can combine them and
so you could do things like
that where it naturally or
it innately handles the subscriptions and
you know, things like that so
it will subscribe to both the flash
sale item and this store.
So that's just how we can make
state a little bit more convenient.